README.md, before:

# Semantic Kernel Workshop

A hands-on workshop exploring Microsoft's Semantic Kernel framework for building intelligent AI applications. This workshop provides practical experience with real-world AI application patterns using Python and Azure OpenAI.

## Workshop Overview

This workshop takes you from foundational concepts to advanced implementation patterns through a series of Jupyter notebooks and practical examples. You'll learn how to:

- Build AI applications using Microsoft's Semantic Kernel framework
- Create and orchestrate AI agents with different capabilities and roles
- Construct structured AI workflows using the Process Framework
- Implement enterprise-ready AI features with security and scalability in mind

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- Azure OpenAI API access (API key, endpoint, and deployment name)
- Basic knowledge of Python programming
- Understanding of prompt engineering concepts (helpful but not required)

## Workshop Modules

### 01. Introduction to Semantic Kernel

Learn the fundamentals of Semantic Kernel:
- Core architectural components (Kernel, AI Services, Plugins)
- Building semantic functions with prompts
- Creating native functions with Python code
- Implementing memory for persistent context
- Enabling automatic function calling for AI agents

**Key Notebooks:**
- `01-intro.ipynb`: Core concepts, services, and function creation
- `02-memory.ipynb`: Implementing semantic memory with embeddings

### 02. Semantic Kernel Agents

Master the creation and orchestration of AI agents:
- Creating specialized agents with different personas
- Implementing multi-agent communication patterns
- Agent selection strategies and orchestration
- Building agent topologies for complex scenarios
- Integrating plugins with agents for enhanced capabilities

**Key Notebooks:**
- `02.1-agents.ipynb`: Creating and configuring agents
- `02.2-agents-chats.ipynb`: Inter-agent communication and complex patterns

### 03. Process Framework

Learn to build structured, event-driven AI workflows:
- Understanding the Process Framework architecture
- Defining events, steps, and state management
- Building conversational AI systems with processes
- Implementing complex business logic with AI capabilities
- Creating maintainable and testable AI workflows

**Key Notebooks:**
- `03.1-intro-to-processes.ipynb`: Building stateful, event-driven AI processes

### Interactive Playground

Apply what you've learned in a real application:
- A full-stack application with React frontend and FastAPI backend
- Semantic memory implementation
- AI-powered functions and plugins
- Translation and summarization capabilities
- Example of native plugin integration (Weather)

## Project Structure

```
semantic-kernel-workshop/
├── 01-intro-to-semantic-kernel/    # Introduction to core concepts
│   ├── 01-intro.ipynb              # Basic concepts and functions
│   └── 02-memory.ipynb             # Memory implementation
├── 02-semantic-kernel-agents/      # Agent creation and orchestration
│   ├── 02.1-agents.ipynb           # Agent fundamentals
│   ├── 02.2-agents-chats.ipynb     # Multi-agent communication
│   └── .env.sample                 # Environment variables template
├── 03-process-framework/           # Structured AI workflows
│   └── 03.1-intro-to-processes.ipynb  # Process fundamentals
└── playground/                     # Interactive application
    ├── backend/                    # FastAPI server
    ├── frontend/                   # React application
    ├── start.sh                    # Launch script
    └── README.md                   # Playground documentation
```

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repository

2. Create a virtual environment:
   
   **Linux/macOS:**
   ```bash
   # Create a virtual environment
   python -m venv venv
   
   # Activate the virtual environment
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```
   
   **Windows:**
   ```cmd
   # Create a virtual environment
   python -m venv venv
   
   # Activate the virtual environment
   venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. Copy the environment variables template:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

4. Add your Azure OpenAI credentials to the `.env` file:
   ```
   AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT=your-deployment-name
   AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key 
   AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=your-azure-endpoint
   AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION=2024-02-15-preview
   AZURE_OPENAI_EMBEDDING_DEPLOYMENT=your-embedding-deployment
   ```

5. Start with the first notebook:
   - Begin with `01-intro-to-semantic-kernel/01-intro.ipynb`, which includes instructions for installing Semantic Kernel and other required packages.

## Learning Path

For optimal learning, follow this progression:

1. **Foundational Concepts**: Start with `01-intro.ipynb` to understand the core components
2. **Memory Implementation**: Explore `02-memory.ipynb` to see how semantic memory works
3. **Basic Agents**: Create your first agents in `02.1-agents.ipynb`
4. **Advanced Agent Patterns**: Study complex agent interactions in `02.2-agents-chats.ipynb`
5. **Process Framework**: Learn structured workflows with `03.1-intro-to-processes.ipynb`
6. **Practical Application**: Apply everything in the interactive playground

## Advanced Topics and Resources

For advanced patterns and enterprise deployment scenarios, explore the [Semantic Kernel Advanced Usage](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/semantic-kernel-advanced-usage) repository, which includes:

- Dapr integration for scalable, distributed systems
- Authentication and security patterns
- Natural language to SQL conversion
- Copilot Studio integration
- Microsoft Graph API integration
- Production deployment architecture

## Additional Resources

- [Semantic Kernel Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/semantic-kernel/overview/)
- [Azure OpenAI Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/ai-services/openai-service/)
- [Microsoft Copilot Studio](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-copilot/microsoft-copilot-studio)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

docs: add gif for demo and edit docs to run the project

README.md, after:

# Semantic Kernel Workshop

A hands-on workshop exploring Microsoft's Semantic Kernel framework for building intelligent AI applications. This workshop provides practical experience with real-world AI application patterns using Python and Azure OpenAI.

## Workshop Overview

This workshop takes you from foundational concepts to advanced implementation patterns through a series of Jupyter notebooks and practical examples. You'll learn how to:

- Build AI applications using Microsoft's Semantic Kernel framework
- Create and orchestrate AI agents with different capabilities and roles
- Construct structured AI workflows using the Process Framework
- Implement enterprise-ready AI features with security and scalability in mind

## Interactive Playground Demo

Experience Semantic Kernel in action through our interactive playground! This visual demonstration allows you to directly engage with the core concepts covered in the workshop.

![Semantic Kernel Playground Demo](playground/assets/sk-playground.gif)

The playground offers a hands-on environment where you can:
- Test semantic functions in real-time
- Explore agent capabilities and interactions
- Experiment with memory and embeddings
- Try out native plugin integration
- See the Process Framework in action

No need to wait until the end of the workshop - you can start exploring the playground at any time to reinforce concepts as you learn them!

For setup instructions and details on how to run the playground, refer to the [Playground README](playground/README.md).

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or higher
- Azure OpenAI API access (API key, endpoint, and deployment name)
- Basic knowledge of Python programming
- Understanding of prompt engineering concepts (helpful but not required)

## Workshop Modules

### 01. Introduction to Semantic Kernel

Learn the fundamentals of Semantic Kernel:
- Core architectural components (Kernel, AI Services, Plugins)
- Building semantic functions with prompts
- Creating native functions with Python code
- Implementing memory for persistent context
- Enabling automatic function calling for AI agents

**Key Notebooks:**
- `01-intro.ipynb`: Core concepts, services, and function creation
- `02-memory.ipynb`: Implementing semantic memory with embeddings

### 02. Semantic Kernel Agents

Master the creation and orchestration of AI agents:
- Creating specialized agents with different personas
- Implementing multi-agent communication patterns
- Agent selection strategies and orchestration
- Building agent topologies for complex scenarios
- Integrating plugins with agents for enhanced capabilities

**Key Notebooks:**
- `02.1-agents.ipynb`: Creating and configuring agents
- `02.2-agents-chats.ipynb`: Inter-agent communication and complex patterns

### 03. Process Framework

Learn to build structured, event-driven AI workflows:
- Understanding the Process Framework architecture
- Defining events, steps, and state management
- Building conversational AI systems with processes
- Implementing complex business logic with AI capabilities
- Creating maintainable and testable AI workflows

**Key Notebooks:**
- `03.1-intro-to-processes.ipynb`: Building stateful, event-driven AI processes

## Project Structure

```
semantic-kernel-workshop/
├── 01-intro-to-semantic-kernel/    # Introduction to core concepts
│   ├── 01-intro.ipynb              # Basic concepts and functions
│   └── 02-memory.ipynb             # Memory implementation
├── 02-semantic-kernel-agents/      # Agent creation and orchestration
│   ├── 02.1-agents.ipynb           # Agent fundamentals
│   ├── 02.2-agents-chats.ipynb     # Multi-agent communication
│   └── .env.sample                 # Environment variables template
├── 03-process-framework/           # Structured AI workflows
│   └── 03.1-intro-to-processes.ipynb  # Process fundamentals
└── playground/                     # Interactive application
    ├── backend/                    # FastAPI server
    ├── frontend/                   # React application
    ├── start.sh                    # Launch script
    └── README.md                   # Playground documentation
```

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repository

2. Create a virtual environment:
   
   **Linux/macOS:**
   ```bash
   # Create a virtual environment
   python -m venv venv
   
   # Activate the virtual environment
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```
   
   **Windows:**
   ```cmd
   # Create a virtual environment
   python -m venv venv
   
   # Activate the virtual environment
   venv\Scripts\activate
   ```

3. Copy the environment variables template:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

4. Add your Azure OpenAI credentials to the `.env` file:
   ```
   AZURE_OPENAI_DEPLOYMENT=your-deployment-name
   AZURE_OPENAI_API_KEY=your-api-key 
   AZURE_OPENAI_ENDPOINT=your-azure-endpoint
   AZURE_OPENAI_API_VERSION=2024-02-15-preview
   AZURE_OPENAI_EMBEDDING_DEPLOYMENT=your-embedding-deployment
   ```

5. Start with the first notebook:
   - Begin with `01-intro-to-semantic-kernel/01-intro.ipynb`, which includes instructions for installing Semantic Kernel and other required packages.

## Learning Path

For optimal learning, follow this progression:

1. **Foundational Concepts**: Start with `01-intro.ipynb` to understand the core components
2. **Memory Implementation**: Explore `02-memory.ipynb` to see how semantic memory works
3. **Basic Agents**: Create your first agents in `02.1-agents.ipynb`
4. **Advanced Agent Patterns**: Study complex agent interactions in `02.2-agents-chats.ipynb`
5. **Process Framework**: Learn structured workflows with `03.1-intro-to-processes.ipynb`
6. **Practical Application**: Apply everything in the interactive playground

## Advanced Topics and Resources

For advanced patterns and enterprise deployment scenarios, explore the [Semantic Kernel Advanced Usage](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/semantic-kernel-advanced-usage) repository, which includes:

- Dapr integration for scalable, distributed systems
- Authentication and security patterns
- Natural language to SQL conversion
- Copilot Studio integration
- Microsoft Graph API integration
- Production deployment architecture

## Additional Resources

- [Semantic Kernel Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/semantic-kernel/overview/)
- [Azure OpenAI Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/ai-services/openai-service/)
- [Microsoft Copilot Studio](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-copilot/microsoft-copilot-studio)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
